# Functional programming

- Functional programming is an approach to software development based around the evaluation of functions.

- Functional programming follows a few core principles:

Functions are independent from the state of the program or global variables. They only depend on the arguments passed into them to make a calculation
Functions try to limit any changes to the state of the program and avoid changes to the global objects holding data
Functions have minimal side effects in the program

- The functional programming software development approach breaks a program into small, testable parts. This section covers basic functional programming principles in JavaScript.

1. Learn About Functional Programming

- Functional programming is a style of programming where solutions are simple, isolated functions, without any side effects outside of the function scope.

- INPUT -> PROCESS -> OUTPUT

- Functional programming is about:

  - 1. Isolated functions - there is no dependence on the state of the program, which includes global variables that are subject to change

  - 2. Pure functions - the same input always gives the same output

  - 3. Functions with limited side effects - any changes, or mutations, to the state of the program outside the function are carefully controlled

2. Understand Functional Programming Terminology

- Callbacks are the functions that are slipped or passed into another function to decide the invocation of that function. You may have seen them passed to other methods, for example in filter, the callback function tells JavaScript the criteria for how to filter an array.
- Functions that can be assigned to a variable, passed into another function, or returned from another function just like any other normal value, are called first class functions. In JavaScript, all functions are first class functions.
- The functions that take a function as an argument, or return a function as a return value are called higher order functions.
- When the functions are passed in to another function or returned from another function, then those functions which gets passed in or returned can be called a lambda.

3. Understand the Hazards of Using Imperative Code 다시 !!

- Functional programming is a good habit. It keeps your code easy to manage, and saves you from sneaky bugs.

- But before we get there, let's look at an imperative approach to programming to highlight where you may have issues.
- an imperative style in programming is one that gives the computer a set of statements to perform a task.

- Often the statements change the state of the program, like updating global variables. A classic example is writing a for loop that gives exact directions to iterate over the indices of an array.

- In contrast, functional programming is a form of declarative programming. You tell the computer what you want done by calling a method or function.

- JavaScript offers many predefined methods that handle common tasks so you don't need to write out how the computer should perform them. For example, instead of using the for loop mentioned above, you could call the map method which handles the details of iterating over an array. This helps to avoid semantic errors, like the "Off By One Errors" that were covered in the Debugging section.

- Consider the scenario: you are browsing the web in your browser, and want to track the tabs you have opened. Let's try to model this using some simple object-oriented code.
  이해가 잘 안됨..

```js
// tabs is an array of titles of each site open within the window
var Window = function (tabs) {
  this.tabs = tabs; // We keep a record of the array inside the object
};

// When you join two windows into one window
Window.prototype.join = function (otherWindow) {
  this.tabs = this.tabs.concat(otherWindow.tabs);
  return this;
};

// When you open a new tab at the end
Window.prototype.tabOpen = function (tab) {
  this.tabs.push("new tab"); // Let's open a new tab for now
  return this;
};

// When you close a tab
Window.prototype.tabClose = function (index) {
  // Only change code below this line

  var tabsBeforeIndex = this.tabs.slice(0, index); // Get the tabs before the tab
  var tabsAfterIndex = this.tabs.slice(index + 1); // Get the tabs after the tab

  this.tabs = tabsBeforeIndex.concat(tabsAfterIndex); // Join them together

  // Only change code above this line

  return this;
};

// Let's create three browser windows
var workWindow = new Window([
  "GMail",
  "Inbox",
  "Work mail",
  "Docs",
  "freeCodeCamp",
]); // Your mailbox, drive, and other work sites
var socialWindow = new Window(["FB", "Gitter", "Reddit", "Twitter", "Medium"]); // Social sites
var videoWindow = new Window(["Netflix", "YouTube", "Vimeo", "Vine"]); // Entertainment sites

// Now perform the tab opening, closing, and other operations
var finalTabs = socialWindow
  .tabOpen() // Open a new tab for cat memes
  .join(videoWindow.tabClose(2)) // Close third tab in video window, and join
  .join(workWindow.tabClose(1).tabOpen());
console.log(finalTabs.tabs);
```

4.  Avoid Mutations and Side Effects Using Functional Programming

- Unfortunately, splice changes the original array it is called on, so the second call to it used a modified array, and gave unexpected results.

- One of the core principles of functional programming is to not change things. Changes lead to bugs. It's easier to prevent bugs knowing that your functions don't change anything, including the function arguments or any global variable.

- The previous example didn't have any complicated operations but the splice method changed the original array, and resulted in a bug.
- Recall that in functional programming, changing or altering things is called mutation, and the outcome is called a side effect. A function, ideally, should be a pure function, meaning that it does not cause any side effects.

```js
// The global variable
var fixedValue = 4;

function incrementer() {
  // Only change code below this line
  return fixedValue + 1;
  // Only change code above this line
}
let newValue = incrementer();
console.log(fixedValue); //4
console.log(newValue); //5
```

5. Pass Arguments to Avoid External Dependence in a Function

- The last challenge was a step closer to functional programming principles, but there is still something missing.
- We didn't alter the global variable value, but the function incrementer would not work without the global variable fixedValue being there.
- Another principle of functional programming is to always declare your dependencies explicitly. This means if a function depends on a variable or object being present, then pass that variable or object directly into the function as an argument.
- There are several good consequences from this principle. The function is easier to test, you know exactly what input it takes, and it won't depend on anything else in your program.
- This can give you more confidence when you alter, remove, or add new code. You would know what you can or cannot change and you can see where the potential traps are.

- Finally, the function would always produce the same output for the same set of inputs, no matter what part of the code executes it.

```js
// The global variable
var fixedValue = 4;

// Only change code below this line
function incrementer(number) {
  return number + 1;

  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(incrementer(fixedValue));
console.log(fixedValue);
```

6. Refactor Global Variables Out of Functions

- So far, we have seen two distinct principles for functional programming:

  1. Don't alter a variable or object - create new variables and objects and return them if need be from a function.

  2. Declare function arguments - any computation inside a function depends only on the arguments, and not on any global object or variable.

```js
// The global variable
var bookList = [
  "The Hound of the Baskervilles",
  "On The Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies",
  "Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica",
  "Disquisitiones Arithmeticae",
];

// Change code below this line
function add(arr, bookName) {
  let arrCopy = [...arr];
  arrCopy.push(bookName);
  return arrCopy;
  // Change code above this line
}

// Change code below this line
function remove(arr, bookName) {
  let arrCopy = [...arr];
  var book_index = arrCopy.indexOf(bookName);
  if (book_index >= 0) {
    arrCopy.splice(book_index, 1);
    return arrCopy;
    // Change code above this line
  }
}

var newBookList = add(bookList, "A Brief History of Time");
console.log(newBookList);
var newerBookList = remove(bookList, "On The Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies");
console.log(newerBookList);
var newestBookList = remove(
  add(bookList, "A Brief History of Time"),
  "On The Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies"
);
console.log(newestBookList);
```

7. Use the map Method to Extract Data from an Array

- It would make sense to be able to pass them as arguments to other functions, and return a function from another function. Functions are considered `first class objects` in JavaScript, which means they can be used like any other object. They can be saved in variables, stored in an object, or passed as function arguments.
- Let's start with some simple array functions, which are methods on the array object prototype. In this exercise we are looking at Array.prototype.map(), or more simply map.
- The map method iterates over each item in an array and returns a new array containing the results of calling the callback function on each element. It does this without mutating the original array.
- See below for an example using the map method on the users array to return a new array containing only the names of the users as elements. For simplicity, the example only uses the first argument of the callback.

```js
const users = [
  { name: "John", age: 34 },
  { name: "Amy", age: 20 },
  { name: "camperCat", age: 10 },
];

const names = users.map((user) => user.name);
console.log(names); // [ 'John', 'Amy', 'camperCat' ]
```

8. Implement map on a Prototype

- the map method returns an array of the same length as the one it was called on.
- It also doesn't alter the original array, as long as its callback function doesn't.
- In other words, map is a pure function, and its output depends solely on its inputs. Plus, it takes another function as its argument.
- You might learn a lot about the map method if you implement your own version of it. It is recommended you use a for loop or Array.prototype.forEach().

```js
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myMap = function (callback) {
  var newArray = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  for (let element of s) {
    newArray.push(callback(element));
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myMap(function (item) {
  return item * 2;
});
```

```js
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myMap = function (callback) {
  var newArray = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  for (let i = 0; i < s.length; i++) {
    newArray.push(callback(s[i]));
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myMap(function (item) {
  return item * 2;
});
```

```js
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myMap = function (callback) {
  var newArray = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  s.forEach((element) => newArray.push(callback(element)));
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myMap(function (item) {
  return item * 2;
});
```

9. Use the filter Method to Extract Data from an Array

- filter calls a function on each element of an array and returns a new array containing only the elements for which that function returns true. In other words, it filters the array, based on the function passed to it. Like map, it does this without needing to modify the original array.

- The callback function accepts three arguments.
- The first argument is the current element being processed.
- The second is the index of that element
- the third is the array upon which the filter method was called.

- See below for an example using the filter method on the users array to return a new array containing only the users under the age of 30. For simplicity, the example only uses the first argument of the callback.

```js
const users = [
  { name: "John", age: 34 },
  { name: "Amy", age: 20 },
  { name: "camperCat", age: 10 },
];

const usersUnder30 = users.filter((user) => user.age < 30);
console.log(usersUnder30); // [ { name: 'Amy', age: 20 }, { name: 'camperCat', age: 10 } ]
```

question answer

```js
var filteredList = watchList
  .map((movie) => {
    return { title: movie.Title, rating: movie.imdbRating };
  })
  .filter((movie) => movie.rating > 8.0);
```

10. Implement the filter Method on a Prototype

- You might learn a lot about the filter method if you implement your own version of it. It is recommended you use a for loop or Array.prototype.forEach().

```js
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myFilter = function (callback) {
  // Only change code below this line
  var newArray = [];
  for (let element of s) {
    if (callback(element) === true) {
      newArray.push(element);
    }
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myFilter(function (item) {
  return item % 2 === 1;
});
console.log(new_s);
```

```js
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myFilter = function (callback) {
  // Only change code below this line
  var newArray = [];
  s.forEach((element) => {
    if (callback(element) === true) newArray.push(element);
  });
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myFilter(function (item) {
  return item % 2 === 1;
});
console.log(new_s);
```

12. Return Part of an Array Using the slice Method

- The slice method returns a copy of certain elements of an array. It can take two arguments, the first gives the index of where to begin the slice, the second is the index for where to end the slice (and it's non-inclusive).
- If the arguments are not provided, the default is to start at the beginning of the array through the end, which is an easy way to make a copy of the entire array.
- The slice method does not mutate the original array, but returns a new one.

```js
var arr = ["Cat", "Dog", "Tiger", "Zebra"];
var newArray = arr.slice(1, 3);
// Sets newArray to ["Dog", "Tiger"]
```

13. Remove Elements from an Array Using slice Instead of splice
    slice 나 splice나 첫번쨰 알규먼트는 같다. 몇번째 인덕스 부터 시작할지,
    그런데 slice는 두번째 알규먼트가 내가 짜르고 싶은 인덱스 그다음 인덱스까지이고,
    splice는 그 인덱스부터 몇개를 짜를지가 두번재 알규먼트

- A common pattern while working with arrays is when you want to remove items and keep the rest of the array. JavaScript offers the splice method for this, which takes arguments for the index of where to start removing items, then the number of items to remove. If the second argument is not provided, the default is to remove items through the end.
- However, the splice method mutates the original array it is called on. Here's an example:

```js
var cities = ["Chicago", "Delhi", "Islamabad", "London", "Berlin"];
cities.splice(3, 1); // Returns "London" and deletes it from the cities array
// cities is now ["Chicago", "Delhi", "Islamabad", "Berlin"]
```

```js
function nonMutatingSplice(cities) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return cities.slice(0, 3);
  // Only change code above this line
}
var inputCities = ["Chicago", "Delhi", "Islamabad", "London", "Berlin"];
console.log(nonMutatingSplice(inputCities));
console.log(inputCities);
//[ 'Chicago', 'Delhi', 'Islamabad' ]
//[ 'Chicago', 'Delhi', 'Islamabad', 'London', 'Berlin' ]
```

14. Combine Two Arrays Using the concat Method

- Concatenation means to join items end to end. JavaScript offers the concat method for both strings and arrays that work in the same way.
- For arrays, the method is called on one, then another array is provided as the argument to concat, which is added to the end of the first array. It returns a new array and does not mutate either of the original arrays. Here's an example:

```js
[1, 2, 3].concat([4, 5, 6]);
// Returns a new array [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

15. Add Elements to the End of an Array Using concat Instead of push

- Compare concat to the push method. Push adds an item to the end of the same array it is called on, which mutates that array. Here's an example:

```js
var arr = [1, 2, 3];
arr.push([4, 5, 6]);
// arr is changed to [1, 2, 3, [4, 5, 6]]
// Not the functional programming way
```

- Concat offers a way to add new items to the end of an array without any mutating side effects.
- concat으로 하면 아레이 안들어 가고 그냥 한 아레이에 다 합쳐짐

16. Use the reduce Method to Analyze Data

- Array.prototype.reduce(), or simply reduce(), is the most general of all array operations in JavaScript. You can solve almost any array processing problem using the reduce method.
- The reduce method allows for more general forms of array processing, and it's possible to show that both filter and map can be derived as special applications of reduce. The reduce method iterates over each item in an array and returns a single value (i.e. string, number, object, array). This is achieved via a callback function that is called on each iteration.
- The callback function accepts four arguments. The first argument is known as the accumulator, which gets assigned the return value of the callback function from the previous iteration, the second is the current element being processed, the third is the index of that element and the fourth is the array upon which reduce is called.
- In addition to the callback function, reduce has an additional parameter which takes an initial value for the accumulator. If this second parameter is not used, then the first iteration is skipped and the second iteration gets passed the first element of the array as the accumulator.

- See below for an example using reduce on the users array to return the sum of all the users' ages. For simplicity, the example only uses the first and second arguments.

```js
const users = [
  { name: "John", age: 34 },
  { name: "Amy", age: 20 },
  { name: "camperCat", age: 10 },
];

const sumOfAges = users.reduce((sum, user) => sum + user.age, 0);
console.log(sumOfAges); // 64
```

- In another example, see how an object can be returned containing the names of the users as properties with their ages as values. 아주 좋은 방법

```js
const users = [
  { name: "John", age: 34 },
  { name: "Amy", age: 20 },
  { name: "camperCat", age: 10 },
];

const usersObj = users.reduce((obj, user) => {
  obj[user.name] = user.age;
  return obj;
}, {});
console.log(usersObj); // { John: 34, Amy: 20, camperCat: 10 }
```

question

```js
// The global variable
var watchList = [
  {
    Title: "Inception",
    Year: "2010",
    Rated: "PG-13",
    Released: "16 Jul 2010",
    Runtime: "148 min",
    Genre: "Action, Adventure, Crime",
    Director: "Christopher Nolan",
    Writer: "Christopher Nolan",
    Actors: "Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy",
    Plot:
      "A thief, who steals corporate secrets through use of dream-sharing technology, is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a CEO.",
    Language: "English, Japanese, French",
    Country: "USA, UK",
    Awards: "Won 4 Oscars. Another 143 wins & 198 nominations.",
    Poster:
      "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BMjAxMzY3NjcxNF5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTcwNTI5OTM0Mw@@._V1_SX300.jpg",
    Metascore: "74",
    imdbRating: "8.8",
    imdbVotes: "1,446,708",
    imdbID: "tt1375666",
    Type: "movie",
    Response: "True",
  },
  {
    Title: "Interstellar",
    Year: "2014",
    Rated: "PG-13",
    Released: "07 Nov 2014",
    Runtime: "169 min",
    Genre: "Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi",
    Director: "Christopher Nolan",
    Writer: "Jonathan Nolan, Christopher Nolan",
    Actors: "Ellen Burstyn, Matthew McConaughey, Mackenzie Foy, John Lithgow",
    Plot:
      "A team of explorers travel through a wormhole in space in an attempt to ensure humanity's survival.",
    Language: "English",
    Country: "USA, UK",
    Awards: "Won 1 Oscar. Another 39 wins & 132 nominations.",
    Poster:
      "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BMjIxNTU4MzY4MF5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTgwMzM4ODI3MjE@._V1_SX300.jpg",
    Metascore: "74",
    imdbRating: "8.6",
    imdbVotes: "910,366",
    imdbID: "tt0816692",
    Type: "movie",
    Response: "True",
  },
  {
    Title: "The Dark Knight",
    Year: "2008",
    Rated: "PG-13",
    Released: "18 Jul 2008",
    Runtime: "152 min",
    Genre: "Action, Adventure, Crime",
    Director: "Christopher Nolan",
    Writer:
      "Jonathan Nolan (screenplay), Christopher Nolan (screenplay), Christopher Nolan (story), David S. Goyer (story), Bob Kane (characters)",
    Actors: "Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Aaron Eckhart, Michael Caine",
    Plot:
      "When the menace known as the Joker wreaks havoc and chaos on the people of Gotham, the caped crusader must come to terms with one of the greatest psychological tests of his ability to fight injustice.",
    Language: "English, Mandarin",
    Country: "USA, UK",
    Awards: "Won 2 Oscars. Another 146 wins & 142 nominations.",
    Poster:
      "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BMTMxNTMwODM0NF5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTcwODAyMTk2Mw@@._V1_SX300.jpg",
    Metascore: "82",
    imdbRating: "9.0",
    imdbVotes: "1,652,832",
    imdbID: "tt0468569",
    Type: "movie",
    Response: "True",
  },
  {
    Title: "Batman Begins",
    Year: "2005",
    Rated: "PG-13",
    Released: "15 Jun 2005",
    Runtime: "140 min",
    Genre: "Action, Adventure",
    Director: "Christopher Nolan",
    Writer:
      "Bob Kane (characters), David S. Goyer (story), Christopher Nolan (screenplay), David S. Goyer (screenplay)",
    Actors: "Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Liam Neeson, Katie Holmes",
    Plot:
      "After training with his mentor, Batman begins his fight to free crime-ridden Gotham City from the corruption that Scarecrow and the League of Shadows have cast upon it.",
    Language: "English, Urdu, Mandarin",
    Country: "USA, UK",
    Awards: "Nominated for 1 Oscar. Another 15 wins & 66 nominations.",
    Poster:
      "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BNTM3OTc0MzM2OV5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTYwNzUwMTI3._V1_SX300.jpg",
    Metascore: "70",
    imdbRating: "8.3",
    imdbVotes: "972,584",
    imdbID: "tt0372784",
    Type: "movie",
    Response: "True",
  },
  {
    Title: "Avatar",
    Year: "2009",
    Rated: "PG-13",
    Released: "18 Dec 2009",
    Runtime: "162 min",
    Genre: "Action, Adventure, Fantasy",
    Director: "James Cameron",
    Writer: "James Cameron",
    Actors: "Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana, Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang",
    Plot:
      "A paraplegic marine dispatched to the moon Pandora on a unique mission becomes torn between following his orders and protecting the world he feels is his home.",
    Language: "English, Spanish",
    Country: "USA, UK",
    Awards: "Won 3 Oscars. Another 80 wins & 121 nominations.",
    Poster:
      "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BMTYwOTEwNjAzMl5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTcwODc5MTUwMw@@._V1_SX300.jpg",
    Metascore: "83",
    imdbRating: "7.9",
    imdbVotes: "876,575",
    imdbID: "tt0499549",
    Type: "movie",
    Response: "True",
  },
];

function getRating(watchList) {
  // Only change code below this line
  var newArr = watchList
    .filter((movie) => movie.Director === "Christopher Nolan")
    .map((movie) => Number(movie.imdbRating));

  var sumRating = newArr.reduce((sum, rating) => sum + rating, 0);
  var averageRating = sumRating / newArr.length;

  // Only change code above this line
  return averageRating;
}
console.log(getRating(watchList));
```

17. Use Higher-Order Functions map, filter, or reduce to Solve a Complex Problem

- We have defined a function named squareList. You need to complete the code for the squareList function using any combination of map(), filter(), and reduce() so that it returns a new array containing only the square of only the positive integers (decimal numbers are not integers) when an array of real numbers is passed to it. An example of an array containing only real numbers is [-3, 4.8, 5, 3, -3.2].

Note: Your function should not use any kind of for or while loops or the forEach() function.

```js serin
const squareList = (arr) => {
  // Only change code below this line
  return arr
    .filter((element) => element > 0)
    .filter((element) => Number.isInteger(element))
    .map((element) => element * element);
  // Only change code above this line
};

const squaredIntegers = squareList([-3, 4.8, 5, 3, -3.2]);
console.log(squaredIntegers);
```

other solution (ned ask?)

```js
const squareList = (arr) => {
  return arr.reduce((sqrIntegers, num) => {
    return Number.isInteger(num) && num > 0
      ? sqrIntegers.concat(num * num)
      : sqrIntegers;
  }, []);
};
```

18. Sort an Array Alphabetically using the sort Method
    그래서 뭐 어쩌잔건데?

- The sort method sorts the elements of an array according to the callback function.

```js
function ascendingOrder(arr) {
  return arr.sort(function (a, b) {
    return a - b;
  });
}
ascendingOrder([1, 5, 2, 3, 4]);
// Returns [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

function reverseAlpha(arr) {
  return arr.sort(function (a, b) {
    return a === b ? 0 : a < b ? 1 : -1;
  });
}
reverseAlpha(["l", "h", "z", "b", "s"]);
// Returns ['z', 's', 'l', 'h', 'b']
```

- JavaScript's default sorting method is by string Unicode point value, which may return unexpected results. Therefore, it is encouraged to provide a callback function to specify how to sort the array items. When such a callback function, normally called compareFunction, is supplied, the array elements are sorted according to the return value of the compareFunction: If compareFunction(a,b) returns a value less than 0 for two elements a and b, then a will come before b. If compareFunction(a,b) returns a value greater than 0 for two elements a and b, then b will come before a. If compareFunction(a,b) returns a value equal to 0 for two elements a and b, then a and b will remain unchanged.

]

```js
function alphabeticalOrder(arr) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return arr.sort((a, b) => (a === b ? 0 : a < b ? -1 : 1));

  // Only change code above this line
}
alphabeticalOrder(["a", "d", "c", "a", "z", "g"]);
```

19. Return a Sorted Array Without Changing the Original Array

- A side effect of the sort method is that it changes the order of the elements in the original array. In other words, it mutates the array in place. One way to avoid this is to first concatenate an empty array to the one being sorted (remember that slice and concat return a new array), then run the sort method.

slice(), concat() 이렇게만 하면 newarr retrun

```js
var globalArray = [5, 6, 3, 2, 9];
function nonMutatingSort(arr) {
  // Only change code below this line
  let newArr = arr.concat();
  console.log(newArr);
  return newArr.sort((a, b) => a - b);
  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(nonMutatingSort(globalArray));
```

20. Split a String into an Array Using the split Method

- The split method splits a string into an array of strings. It takes an argument for the delimiter, which can be a character to use to break up the string or a regular expression. For example, if the delimiter is a space, you get an array of words, and if the delimiter is an empty string, you get an array of each character in the string.

- Here are two examples that split one string by spaces, then another by digits using a regular expression:

```js
var str = "Hello World";
var bySpace = str.split(" ");
// Sets bySpace to ["Hello", "World"]

var otherString = "How9are7you2today";
var byDigits = otherString.split(/\d/); //숫자로 구분한다.
// Sets byDigits to ["How", "are", "you", "today"]
```

- Since strings are immutable, the split method makes it easier to work with them.

- regex는 쿼테이션에 넣지 않아도 된다.
- /\W/ Matches any non-word character. This includes spaces and punctuation, but not underscores. It’s equivalent to /[^a-za-z0-9_]/.

```js
function splitify(str) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return str.split(/\W/);

  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(splitify("Hello World,I-am code"));
//return [ 'Hello', 'World', 'I', 'am', 'code' ]
```

21. Combine an Array into a String Using the join Method

- The join method is used to join the elements of an array together to create a string. It takes an argument for the delimiter that is used to separate the array elements in the string.

Here's an example:

```js
var arr = ["Hello", "World"];
var str = arr.join(" ");
// Sets str to "Hello World"
```

```js
function sentensify(str) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return str.split(/\W/).join(" ");

  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(sentensify("May-the-force-be-with-you"));
// May the force be with you
```

22. Apply Functional Programming to Convert Strings to URL Slugs

- urlSlug("Winter Is Coming") should return "winter-is-coming".
- urlSlug(" Winter Is Coming") should return "winter-is-coming".

```js
// Only change code below this line
function urlSlug(title) {
  const lowerCaseArr = title.toLowerCase().split(" ");
  return lowerCaseArr.filter((element) => element !== "").join("-");
}
// Only change code above this line
console.log(urlSlug(" Winter Is Coming "));
```

23. Use the every Method to Check that Every Element in an Array Meets a Criteria

- The every method works with arrays to check if every element passes a particular test. It returns a Boolean value - true if all values meet the criteria, false if not.
- For example, the following code would check if every element in the numbers array is less than 10:

```js
var numbers = [1, 5, 8, 0, 10, 11];
numbers.every(function (currentValue) {
  return currentValue < 10;
});
// Returns false
```

```js
function checkPositive(arr) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return arr.every((element) => element > 0);

  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(checkPositive([1, 2, 3, -4, 5]));
//false
```

24. Use the some Method to Check that Any Elements in an Array Meet a Criteria

- The some method works with arrays to check if any element passes a particular test. It returns a Boolean value - true if any of the values meet the criteria, false if not.
- For example, the following code would check if any element in the numbers array is less than 10:

```js
var numbers = [10, 50, 8, 220, 110, 11];
numbers.some(function (currentValue) {
  return currentValue < 10;
});
// Returns true
```

25. Introduction to Currying and Partial Application 잘모르겠음
    https://javascript.info/currying-partials

```js
function add(x) {
  // Only change code below this line
  return function (y) {
    return function (z) {
      return x + y + z;
    };
  };

  // Only change code above this line
}
console.log(add(10)(20)(30));
//60
```

- 이해 더 필요한것
  sort, reduce, curring and partial application
