# Intro

- At its core, software development solves a problem or achieves a result with computation.
- The software development process first defines a problem, then presents a solution.
- Object oriented programming is one of several major approaches to the software development process.
- As its name implies, object oriented programming organizes code into object definitions
- These are sometimes called classes, and they group together data with related behavior. The data is an object's attributes, and the behavior (or functions) are methods.
- The object structure makes it flexible within a program.
- Objects can transfer information by calling and passing data to another object's methods.
- Also, new classes can receive, or inherit, all the features from a base or parent class. This helps to reduce repeated code.
- Your choice of programming approach depends on a few factors. These include the type of problem, as well as how you want to structure your data and algorithms.

1. Create a Basic JavaScript Object

- Think about things people see every day, like cars, shops, and birds. These are all objects: tangible things people can observe and interact with.
  What are some qualities of these objects? A car has wheels. Shops sell items. Birds have wings.
  These qualities, or properties, define what makes up an object. Note that similar objects share the same properties, but may have different values for those properties. For example, all cars have wheels, but not all cars have the same number of wheels.

2. se Dot Notation to Access the Properties of an Object
3. Create a Method on an Object

- Objects can have a special type of property, called a method.
- Methods are properties that are functions. This adds different behavior to an object.

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function () {
    return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";
  },
};
duck.sayName();
// Returns "The name of this duck is Aflac."
```

- The example adds the sayName method, which is a function that returns a sentence giving the name of the duck.
- Notice that the method accessed the name property in the return statement using duck.name

3. Make Code More Reusable with the this Keyword

- The last challenge introduced a method to the duck object. It used duck.name dot notation to access the value for the name property within the return statement:
- While this is a valid way to access the object's property, there is a pitfall here.(pitfall:a hidden or unsuspected danger or difficulty.)
- If the variable name changes, any code referencing the original name would need to be updated as well.
- In a short object definition, it isn't a problem, but if an object has many references to its properties there is a greater chance for error.
- A way to avoid these issues is with the this keyword:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function () {
    return "The name of this duck is " + this.name + ".";
  },
};
```

- `this` is a deep topic, and the above example is only one way to use it.
- In the current context, this refers to the object that the method is associated with: duck
- If the object's name is changed to mallard, it is not necessary to find all the references to duck in the code. It makes the code reusable and easier to read.

4. Define a Constructor Function

- Constructors are functions that create new objects. They define properties and behaviors that will belong to the new object.
- Think of them as a blueprint for the creation of new objects.

```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
}
```

- This constructor defines a Bird object with properties name, color, and numLegs set to Albert, blue, and 2, respectively.

- Constructors follow a few conventions:

  - Constructors are defined with a capitalized name to distinguish them from other functions that are not constructors.
  - Constructors use the keyword this to set properties of the object they will create. Inside the constructor, this refers to the new object it will create.
  - Constructors define properties and behaviors instead of returning a value as other functions might.
    !!!also not use :, use =

5. Use a Constructor to Create Objects

```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
  // "this" inside the constructor always refers to the object being created
}

let blueBird = new Bird();
```

- Notice that the `new` operator is used when calling a constructor.
- This tells JavaScript to create a new instance of `Bird` called `blueBird`.
- Without the new operator, this inside the constructor would not point to the newly created object, giving unexpected results.
- Now blueBird has all the properties defined inside the Bird constructor:

```js
blueBird.name; // => Albert
blueBird.color; // => blue
blueBird.numLegs; // => 2
```

- Just like any other object, its properties can be accessed and modified:

```js
blueBird.name = "Elvira";
blueBird.name; // => Elvira
```

6. Extend Constructors to Receive Arguments

- However, notice that all Birds that are created with the Bird constructor are automatically named Albert, are blue in color, and have two legs. What if you want birds with different values for name and color? It's possible to change the properties of each bird manually but that would be a lot of work:

```js
let swan = new Bird();
swan.name = "Carlos";
swan.color = "white";
```

- To more easily create different Bird objects, you can design your Bird constructor to accept parameters:

```js
function Bird(name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
  this.numLegs = 2;
}
```

- Then pass in the values as arguments to define each unique bird into the Bird constructor: let cardinal = new Bird("Bruce", "red");
- This gives a new instance of Bird with name and color properties set to Bruce and red, respectively. The numLegs property is still set to 2. The cardinal has these properties:

7. Verify an Object's Constructor with instanceof

- Anytime a constructor function creates a new object, that object is said to be an instance of its constructor.

- JavaScript gives a convenient way to verify this with the instanceof operator. instanceof allows you to compare an object to a constructor, returning true or false based on whether or not that object was created with the constructor. Here's an example:

```js
let Bird = function (name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
  this.numLegs = 2;
};

let crow = new Bird("Alexis", "black");

crow instanceof Bird; // => true
```

- If an object is created without using a constructor, instanceof will verify that it is not an instance of that constructor:

```js
let canary = {
  name: "Mildred",
  color: "Yellow",
  numLegs: 2,
};

canary instanceof Bird; // => false
```

```js
function House(numBedrooms) {
  this.numBedrooms = numBedrooms;
}

let myHouse = new House(5);

console.log(myHouse instanceof House); //true
```

8. Understand Own Properties
   In the following example, the Bird constructor defines two properties: name and numLegs:

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name;
  this.numLegs = 2;
}

let duck = new Bird("Donald");
let canary = new Bird("Tweety");
```

- name and numLegs are called own properties, because they are defined directly on the instance object. That means that duck and canary each has its own separate copy of these properties.
- In fact every instance of Bird will have its own copy of these properties. The following code adds all of the own properties of duck to the array ownProps:

```js
let ownProps = [];

for (let property in duck) {
  if (duck.hasOwnProperty(property)) {
    ownProps.push(property);
  }
}

console.log(ownProps); // prints [ "name", "numLegs" ]
```

9. Use Prototype Properties to Reduce Duplicate Code

- Since numLegs will probably have the same value for all instances of Bird, you essentially have a duplicated variable numLegs inside each Bird instance.

- This may not be an issue when there are only two instances, but imagine if there are millions of instances. That would be a lot of duplicated variables.

- A better way is to use Bird’s prototype. Properties in the prototype are shared among ALL instances of Bird. Here's how to add numLegs to the Bird prototype:

```js
Bird.prototype.numLegs = 2;
```

- Now all instances of Bird have the numLegs property.

```js
console.log(duck.numLegs); // prints 2
console.log(canary.numLegs); // prints 2
```

- Since all instances automatically have the properties on the prototype, think of a prototype as a "recipe" for creating objects. - Note that the prototype for duck and canary is part of the Bird constructor as Bird.prototype. Nearly every object in JavaScript has a prototype property which is part of the constructor function that created it.

```js
function Dog(name) {
  this.name = name;
}
Dog.prototype.numLegs = 4;

// Only change code above this line
let beagle = new Dog("Snoopy");
console.log(beagle); //{ name: 'Snoopy' }
console.log(beagle.numLegs); //4
```

10. Iterate Over All Properties

- You have now seen two kinds of properties: own properties and prototype properties
- Own properties are defined directly on the object instance itself. And prototype properties are defined on the prototype.

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name; //own property
}

Bird.prototype.numLegs = 2; // prototype property

let duck = new Bird("Donald");
```

- Here is how you add duck's own properties to the array ownProps and prototype properties to the array prototypeProps:

```js
let ownProps = [];
let prototypeProps = [];

for (let property in duck) {
  if (duck.hasOwnProperty(property)) {
    ownProps.push(property);
  } else {
    prototypeProps.push(property);
  }
}

console.log(ownProps); // prints ["name"]
console.log(prototypeProps); // prints ["numLegs"]
```

11. Understand the Constructor Property

- There is a special constructor property located on the object instances duck and beagle that were created in the previous challenges:

```js
let duck = new Bird();
let beagle = new Dog();

console.log(duck.constructor === Bird); //prints true
console.log(beagle.constructor === Dog); //prints true
```

- Note that the constructor property is a reference to the constructor function that created the instance. The advantage of the constructor property is that it's possible to check for this property to find out what kind of object it is. Here's an example of how this could be used:

```js
function joinBirdFraternity(candidate) {
  if (candidate.constructor === Bird) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}
```

- Since the constructor property can be overwritten (which will be covered in the next two challenges) it’s generally better to use the instanceof method to check the type of an object.

12. Change the Prototype to a New Object

- Up until now you have been adding properties to the prototype individually:

```js
Bird.prototype.numLegs = 2;
```

- This becomes tedious after more than a few properties.

```js
Bird.prototype.eat = function () {
  console.log("nom nom nom");
};

Bird.prototype.describe = function () {
  console.log("My name is " + this.name);
};
```

- A more efficient way is to set the prototype to a new object that already contains the properties. This way, the properties are added all at once:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  numLegs: 2,
  eat: function () {
    console.log("nom nom nom");
  },
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};
```

13. Remember to Set the Constructor Property when Changing the Prototype

- There is one crucial side effect of manually setting the prototype to a new object. It erases the constructor property! This property can be used to check which constructor function created the instance, but since the property has been overwritten, it now gives false results:

```js
duck.constructor === Bird; // false -- Oops
duck.constructor === Object; // true, all objects inherit from Object.prototype
duck instanceof Bird; // true, still works
```

- To fix this, whenever a prototype is manually set to a new object, remember to define the constructor property:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird, // define the constructor property
  numLegs: 2,
  eat: function () {
    console.log("nom nom nom");
  },
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};
```
