# Intro

- Regular expressions are special strings that represent a search pattern.

- Also known as "regex" or "regexp", they help programmers match, search, and replace text.
- Regular expressions can appear cryptic because a few characters have special meaning.

- The goal is to combine the symbols and text into a pattern that matches what you want, but only what you want.

1. Using the Test Method

- If you want to find the word "the" in the string "The dog chased the cat", you could use the following regular expression: /the/.
  regex 표현: slash 붙이면 된다.
- Notice that quote marks are not required within the regular expression.
- JavaScript has multiple ways to use regexes. One way to test a regex is using the .test() method.
- The .test() method takes the regex, applies it to a string (which is placed inside the parentheses), and returns true or false if your pattern finds something or not.

```js
let testStr = "freeCodeCamp";
let testRegex = /Code/;
testRegex.test(testStr);
// Returns true
```

2.  Match Literal Strings

- "Hello" using the regular expression /Hello/. That regex searched for a literal match of the string "Hello". Here's another example searching for a literal match of the string "Kevin":

```js
let testStr = "Hello, my name is Kevin.";
let testRegex = /Kevin/;
testRegex.test(testStr);
// Returns true
```

- Any other forms of "Kevin" will not match. For example, the regex /Kevin/ will not match "kevin" or "KEVIN".

```js
let wrongRegex = /kevin/;
wrongRegex.test(testStr);
// Returns false
```

3. Match a Literal String with Different Possibilities

   - Using regexes like `/coding/`, you can look for the pattern "coding" in another string.

   This is powerful to search single strings, but it's limited to only one pattern. You can search for multiple patterns using the alternation or OR operator: |.

   - This operator matches patterns either before or after it. For example, if you wanted to match "yes" or "no", the regex you want is `/yes|no/`.
   - You can also search for more than just two patterns. You can do this by adding more patterns with more OR operators separating them, like `/yes|no|maybe/`.

4. Ignore Case While Matching (i 플래그)

   - Up until now, you've looked at regexes to do literal matches of strings. But sometimes, you might want to also match case differences.
   - Case (or sometimes letter case) is the difference between uppercase letters and lowercase letters.
   - You can match both cases using what is called a flag.
   - There are other flags but here you'll focus on the flag that ignores case - the i flag.
   - You can use it by appending it to the regex. An example of using this flag is `/ignorecase/i`. This regex can match the strings "ignorecase", "igNoreCase", and "IgnoreCase".

5. Extract Matches

- So far, you have only been checking if a pattern exists or not within a string. You can also extract the actual matches you found with the .match() method.
- To use the .match() method, apply the method on a string and pass in the regex inside the parentheses.

```js
"Hello, World!".match(/Hello/);
// Returns ["Hello"]
let ourStr = "Regular expressions";
let ourRegex = /expressions/;
ourStr.match(ourRegex);
// Returns ["expressions"]
```

아레이에 다른것도 있음

```js
[
  "coding",
  (index: 18),
  (input: "Extract the word 'coding' from this string."),
  (groups: undefined),
];
```

- Note that the .match syntax is the "opposite" of the .test method you have been using thus far:

```js
"string".match(/regex/);
/regex/.test("string");
```

6. Find More Than the First Match (g플래그)

- So far, you have only been able to extract or search a pattern once.

```js
let testStr = "Repeat, Repeat, Repeat";
let ourRegex = /Repeat/;
testStr.match(ourRegex);
// Returns ["Repeat"]
```

- To search or extract a pattern more than once, you can use the g flag.

```js
let repeatRegex = /Repeat/g;
testStr.match(repeatRegex);
// Returns ["Repeat", "Repeat", "Repeat"]
```

```js
let twinkleStar = "Twinkle, twinkle, little star";
let starRegex = /twinkle/gi; // Change this line
let result = twinkleStar.match(starRegex); // Change this line
console.log(result); //returns [ 'Twinkle', 'twinkle' ]
```

7. Match Anything with Wildcard Period

- Sometimes you won't (or don't need to) know the exact characters in your patterns. Thinking of all words that match, say, a misspelling would take a long time. Luckily, you can save time using the wildcard character: .
- The wildcard character . will match any one character. The wildcard is also called dot and period. You can use the wildcard character just like any other character in the regex.
- For example, if you wanted to match "hug", "huh", "hut", and "hum", you can use the regex /hu./ to match all four words.

```js
let humStr = "I'll hum a song";
let hugStr = "Bear hug";
let huRegex = /hu./;
huRegex.test(humStr); // Returns true
huRegex.test(hugStr); // Returns true
```

8. Match Single Character with Multiple Possibilities

- You learned how to match literal patterns (/literal/) and wildcard character (/./). Those are the extremes of regular expressions, where one finds exact matches and the other matches everything.
- There are options that are a balance between the two extremes.
- You can search for a literal pattern with some flexibility with character classes.
- `Character classes` allow you to define a group of characters you wish to match by placing them inside square ([ and ]) brackets.
- For example, you want to match "bag", "big", and "bug" but not "bog". You can create the regex /b[aiu]g/ to do this. The [aiu] is the character class that will only match the characters "a", "i", or "u".

```js
let bigStr = "big";
let bagStr = "bag";
let bugStr = "bug";
let bogStr = "bog";
let bgRegex = /b[aiu]g/;
bigStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns ["big"]
bagStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns ["bag"]
bugStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns ["bug"]
bogStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns null
```

```js
let quoteSample =
  "Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it.";
let vowelRegex = /[aeiou]/gi; // Change this line
let result = quoteSample.match(vowelRegex); // Change this line
```

9. Match Letters of the Alphabet

- You saw how you can use character sets to specify a group of characters to match, but that's a lot of typing when you need to match a large range of characters (for example, every letter in the alphabet). Fortunately, there is a built-in feature that makes this short and simple.
- Inside a character set, you can define a range of characters to match using a hyphen character: -.
- For example, to match lowercase letters a through e you would use `[a-e]`.

```js
let catStr = "cat";
let batStr = "bat";
let matStr = "mat";
let bgRegex = /[a-e]at/;
catStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns ["cat"]
batStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns ["bat"]
matStr.match(bgRegex); // Returns null
```

10. Match Numbers and Letters of the Alphabet

- Using the hyphen (-) to match a range of characters is not limited to letters. It also works to match a range of numbers.
- For example, `/[0-5]/` matches any number between 0 and 5, including the 0 and 5.

- Also, it is possible to combine a range of letters and numbers in a single character set.

```js
let jennyStr = "Jenny8675309";
let myRegex = /[a-z0-9]/gi;
// matches all letters and numbers in jennyStr
jennyStr.match(myRegex); //return
// [
//   'J', 'e', 'n', 'n',
//   'y', '8', '6', '7',
//   '5', '3', '0', '9'
// ]
```

11. Match Single Characters Not Specified

- So far, you have created a set of characters that you want to match, but you could also create a set of characters that you do not want to match.
- These types of character sets are called negated character sets.
- To create a negated character set, you place a caret character (^) after the opening bracket and before the characters you do not want to match.
- For example, `/[^aeiou]/gi` matches all characters that are not a vowel. Note that characters like ., !, [, @, / and white space are matched - the negated vowel character set only excludes the vowel characters.

```js
let quoteSample = "3 blind mice.";
let myRegex = /[^0-9aeiou]/gi; // Change this line
let result = quoteSample.match(myRegex); // Change this line
console.log(result); //return [ ' ', 'b', 'l', 'n', 'd', ' ', 'm', 'c', '.' ]
```

12. Match Characters that Occur One or More Times

- Sometimes, you need to match a character (or group of characters) that appears one or more times in a row. This means it occurs at least once, and may be repeated.
- You can use the + character to check if that is the case. Remember, the character or pattern has to be present consecutively. That is, the character has to repeat one after the other.
- For example, /a+/g would find one match in "abc" and return ["a"]. Because of the +, it would also find a single match in "aabc" and return ["aa"].
- If it were instead checking the string "abab", it would find two matches and return ["a", "a"] because the a characters are not in a row - there is a b between them. Finally, since there is no "a" in the string "bcd", it wouldn't find a match.

```js
let difficultSpelling = "Mississippi";
let myRegex = /s+/gi; // Change this line
let result = difficultSpelling.match(myRegex);
console.log(result); //return [ 'ss', 'ss' ]
```

13. Match Characters that Occur Zero or More Times

- The last challenge used the plus + sign to look for characters that occur one or more times. There's also an option that matches characters that occur zero or more times.
- The character to do this is the asterisk or star: \*.

```js
let soccerWord = "gooooooooal!";
let gPhrase = "gut feeling";
let oPhrase = "over the moon";
let goRegex = /go*/;
soccerWord.match(goRegex); // Returns ["goooooooo"]
gPhrase.match(goRegex); // Returns ["g"]
oPhrase.match(goRegex); // Returns null
```

14. Find Characters with Lazy Matching(이해 안감)

- In regular expressions, a greedy match finds the longest possible part of a string that fits the regex pattern and returns it as a match.

- The alternative is called a lazy match, which finds the smallest possible part of the string that satisfies the regex pattern.
- You can apply the regex `/t[a-z]\*i/` to the string "titanic". This regex is basically a pattern that starts with t, ends with i, and has some letters in between.
- Regular expressions are by default greedy, so the match would return ["titani"]. It finds the largest sub-string possible to fit the pattern.
- However, you can use the ? character to change it to lazy matching. "titanic" matched against the adjusted regex of /t[a-z]\*?i/ returns ["ti"].

```js
let text = "<h1>Winter is coming</h1>";
let myRegex = /<.*?>/; // Change this line
let result = text.match(myRegex);
console.log(result);
```

15. Find One or More Criminals in a Hunt
    exercise
16. Match Beginning String Patterns
    ^ 문장의 앞부분을 맞추는데 쓰거나, 무시 하는데 []

- In an earlier challenge, you used the caret character (^) inside a character set to create a negated character set in the form `[^thingsThatWillNotBeMatched]`.
- Outside of a character set, the caret is used to search for patterns at the beginning of strings.

```js
let firstString = "Ricky is first and can be found.";
let firstRegex = /^Ricky/;
firstRegex.test(firstString);
// Returns true
let notFirst = "You can't find Ricky now.";
firstRegex.test(notFirst);
// Returns false
```

17. Match Ending String Patterns

- There is also a way to search for patterns at the end of strings.
- You can search the end of strings using the dollar sign character \$ at the end of the regex.

```js
let theEnding = "This is a never ending story";
let storyRegex = /story$/;
storyRegex.test(theEnding);
// Returns true
let noEnding = "Sometimes a story will have to end";
storyRegex.test(noEnding);
// Returns false
```

18. Match All Letters and Numbers

- Using character classes, you were able to search for all letters of the alphabet with [a-z]. This kind of character class is common enough that there is a shortcut for it, although it includes a few extra characters as well.
- The closest character class in JavaScript to match the alphabet is `\w`. This shortcut is equal to [A-Za-z0-9_]. This character class matches upper and lowercase letters plus numbers. Note, this character class also includes the underscore character (\_).

```js
let longHand = /[A-Za-z0-9_]+/;
let shortHand = /\w+/;
let numbers = "42";
let varNames = "important_var";
longHand.test(numbers); // Returns true
shortHand.test(numbers); // Returns true
longHand.test(varNames); // Returns true
shortHand.test(varNames); // Returns true
```

- These shortcut character classes are also known as `shorthand character classes`.

```js
let quoteSample = "The five boxing wizards jump quickly.";
let alphabetRegexV2 = /\w/g; // Change this line
let result = quoteSample.match(alphabetRegexV2).length;
console.log(result); //31
```

19. Match Everything But Letters and Numbers

- You've learned that you can use a shortcut to match alphanumerics [A-Za-z0-9_] using \w. A natural pattern you might want to search for is the opposite of alphanumerics.
- You can search for the opposite of the \w with \W. Note, the opposite pattern uses a capital letter. This shortcut is the same as [^a-za-z0-9_].(자동으로 캐피탈 레터가 스몰 레터로 바뀜)

```js
let shortHand = /\W/;
let numbers = "42%";
let sentence = "Coding!";
numbers.match(shortHand); // Returns ["%"]
sentence.match(shortHand); // Returns ["!"]
```

20. Match All Numbers

- The shortcut to look for digit characters is \d, with a lowercase d. This is equal to the character class [0-9], which looks for a single character of any number between zero and nine.

```js
let movieName = "2001: A Space Odyssey";
let numRegex = /\d/g; // Change this line
let result = movieName.match(numRegex).length;
console.log(result); //4
```

21. Match All Non-Numbers

- You can also search for non-digits using a similar shortcut that uses an uppercase D instead.

The shortcut to look for non-digit characters is \D. This is equal to the character class [^0-9],which looks for a single character that is not a number between zero and nine.

```js
let movieName = "2001: A Space Odyssey";
let noNumRegex = /\D/g; // Change this line
let result = movieName.match(noNumRegex).length;
console.log(result); //17
```

22. Restrict Possible Usernames
    practice username

1) Usernames can only use alpha-numeric characters.

2) The only numbers in the username have to be at the end. There can be zero or more of them at the end. Username cannot start with the number.

3) Username letters can be lowercase and uppercase.

```js
let username = "JackOfAllTrades";
let userCheck = /^[a-z][a-z]+\d*$|^[a-z]\d\d+$/i;
let result = userCheck.test(username);
console.log(result);
```

- 헷갈려

23. Match Whitespace

- You can also match the whitespace or spaces between letters.
- You can search for whitespace using \s, which is a lowercase s. This pattern not only matches whitespace, but also carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it as similar to the character class [ \r\t\f\n\v].

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!";
let spaceRegex = /\s/g;
whiteSpace.match(spaceRegex);
// Returns [" ", " "]
```

24. Match Non-Whitespace Characters

- You can also search for everything except whitespace.

Search for non-whitespace using \S, which is an uppercase s. This pattern will not match whitespace, carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it being similar to the character class [^ \r\t\f\n\v].

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!";
let nonSpaceRegex = /\S/g;
whiteSpace.match(nonSpaceRegex).length; // Returns 32
```

25. Specify Upper and Lower Number of Matches

- Recall that you use the plus sign `+` to look for one or more characters and the asterisk `*` to look for zero or more characters.
- These are convenient but sometimes you want to match a certain range of patterns.
- You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers. Quantity specifiers are used with curly brackets ({ and }). You put two numbers between the curly brackets - for the lower and upper number of patterns.
- For example, to match only the letter a appearing between 3 and 5 times in the string "ah", your regex would be /a{3,5}h/.

```js
let A4 = "aaaah";
let A2 = "aah";
let multipleA = /a{3,5}h/;
multipleA.test(A4); // Returns true
multipleA.test(A2); // Returns false
```

- Change the regex ohRegex to match the entire phrase "Oh no" only when it has 3 to 6 letter h's.

```js
let ohStr = "Ohhh no";
let ohRegex = /Oh{3,6}\sno/; // Change this line
let result = ohRegex.test(ohStr);
```

26. Specify Only the Lower Number of Matches

- To only specify the lower number of patterns, keep the first number followed by a comma.

- For example, to match only the string "hah" with the letter a appearing at least 3 times, your regex would be /ha{3,}h/.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A2 = "haah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleA = /ha{3,}h/;
multipleA.test(A4); // Returns true
multipleA.test(A2); // Returns false
multipleA.test(A100); // Returns true
```

27. Specify Exact Number of Matches

- To specify a certain number of patterns, just have that one number between the curly brackets.
- For example, to match only the word "hah" with the letter a 3 times, your regex would be /ha{3}h/.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A3 = "haaah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleHA = /ha{3}h/;
multipleHA.test(A4); // Returns false
multipleHA.test(A3); // Returns true
multipleHA.test(A100); // Returns false
```

28. Check for All or None
