# Intro

- At its core, software development solves a problem or achieves a result with computation.
- The software development process first defines a problem, then presents a solution.
- Object oriented programming is one of several major approaches to the software development process.
- As its name implies, object oriented programming organizes code into object definitions
- These are sometimes called classes, and they group together data with related behavior. The data is an object's attributes, and the behavior (or functions) are methods.
- The object structure makes it flexible within a program.
- Objects can transfer information by calling and passing data to another object's methods.
- Also, new classes can receive, or inherit, all the features from a base or parent class. This helps to reduce repeated code.
- Your choice of programming approach depends on a few factors. These include the type of problem, as well as how you want to structure your data and algorithms.

1. Create a Basic JavaScript Object

- Think about things people see every day, like cars, shops, and birds. These are all objects: tangible things people can observe and interact with.
  What are some qualities of these objects? A car has wheels. Shops sell items. Birds have wings.
  These qualities, or properties, define what makes up an object. Note that similar objects share the same properties, but may have different values for those properties. For example, all cars have wheels, but not all cars have the same number of wheels.

2. se Dot Notation to Access the Properties of an Object
3. Create a Method on an Object

- Objects can have a special type of property, called a method.
- Methods are properties that are functions. This adds different behavior to an object.

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function () {
    return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";
  },
};
duck.sayName();
// Returns "The name of this duck is Aflac."
```

- The example adds the sayName method, which is a function that returns a sentence giving the name of the duck.
- Notice that the method accessed the name property in the return statement using duck.name

3. Make Code More Reusable with the this Keyword

- The last challenge introduced a method to the duck object. It used duck.name dot notation to access the value for the name property within the return statement:
- While this is a valid way to access the object's property, there is a pitfall here.(pitfall:a hidden or unsuspected danger or difficulty.)
- If the variable name changes, any code referencing the original name would need to be updated as well.
- In a short object definition, it isn't a problem, but if an object has many references to its properties there is a greater chance for error.
- A way to avoid these issues is with the this keyword:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function () {
    return "The name of this duck is " + this.name + ".";
  },
};
```

- `this` is a deep topic, and the above example is only one way to use it.
- In the current context, this refers to the object that the method is associated with: duck
- If the object's name is changed to mallard, it is not necessary to find all the references to duck in the code. It makes the code reusable and easier to read.

4. Define a Constructor Function

- Constructors are functions that create new objects. They define properties and behaviors that will belong to the new object.
- Think of them as a blueprint for the creation of new objects.

```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
}
```

- This constructor defines a Bird object with properties name, color, and numLegs set to Albert, blue, and 2, respectively.

- Constructors follow a few conventions:

  - Constructors are defined with a capitalized name to distinguish them from other functions that are not constructors.
  - Constructors use the keyword this to set properties of the object they will create. Inside the constructor, this refers to the new object it will create.
  - Constructors define properties and behaviors instead of returning a value as other functions might.
    !!!also not use :, use =

5. Use a Constructor to Create Objects

```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
  // "this" inside the constructor always refers to the object being created
}

let blueBird = new Bird();
```

- Notice that the `new` operator is used when calling a constructor.
- This tells JavaScript to create a new instance of `Bird` called `blueBird`.
- Without the new operator, this inside the constructor would not point to the newly created object, giving unexpected results.
- Now blueBird has all the properties defined inside the Bird constructor:

```js
blueBird.name; // => Albert
blueBird.color; // => blue
blueBird.numLegs; // => 2
```

- Just like any other object, its properties can be accessed and modified:

```js
blueBird.name = "Elvira";
blueBird.name; // => Elvira
```
